I just got a totally reasonable question
from the audience while I was live
streaming about what is my current
workout routine I guess he doesn't even
say current but what do I do to stay in
shape to say strong and answer is it
changes with where I'm living so the
answer today was totally different here
in France I'm only in France for 15 days
or so sorry about 20 days as opposed to
living in the home China the border
between Union and Myanmar and it's
different into Hong than it was in
Kunming I've said in past videos that my
advice to people is you've got to get a
workout that fits into your employment
schedule and that's one of the reasons
why advice from people on permanent
vacation is so often misleading
counterproductive and in a sense wrong
while I was into Hong and I'm going back
in just a couple of days until Hong my
job is being a university professor I
teach students 20 and 21 years old
and the university I teach at is on the
top of a small mountain or a large Hill
have you want to put it there's a
staircase leading down the side of that
mountain so guess what I do while I'm
teaching class I run laps up and down
that staircase to get lower body workout
and to be honestly if it wasn't so damn
hot because it's been hot the Hong is
hot enough to grow mangoes but it's also
cool enough to grow strawberries so it
does cool off in the winter but the last
few months it was way too hot I was
doing that with no weight on my back
probably when I go back now as the year
starting to cool off I'm probably going
to put heavy weights on my back while
I'm running up and down the stairs so
that's a really Oh put up video showing
that staircase but that is a real
workout that's in the middle of my
workday
that's exercise I can get while
lecturing at a university so that's a
great example I did when I first started
teaching the University I did look
around to see if they were good spots to
do push-ups pull-ups chin-ups or other
forms of exercise on campus and I've
kind of decided against it for a bunch
of technical reasons including trying to
keep my hands
because the amount of time it takes if I
do some of those exercises and then go
back in to teach class right away you
know if you have a 10 minute break
there's a difference you wanting stairs
and doing those other kinds of exercises
and the extent to which all of my
clothing is completely saturated by
sweat again in the tropics but there's a
great example of how to integrate
exercise into your daily life within
limits a lot of you have seen footage in
recent videos of my home gym in the home
I have the luxury of owning a whole
bunch of gym equipment in a room with no
other purpose that the main luxury is
just space my apartment is big enough
for a family of five to live in so I
have a whole big beautiful room with
natural light coming in fresh air if I
want it where I can set up you know
bench press other forms of exercise I
would say the outstanding exercise I
should feel myself doing and uploaded I
do push-ups with my feet elevated like
maybe five feet off the ground maybe
four and a half feet or something I
really don't know but I elevate my feet
as much as is possible at home using the
bench press
sorry if I'm again I grew up in Canada
so I use meters anyway but anyway Ivies
the old it might be as much possible
back in could Ming as a nice setup at
the gym
there was actually like a chin-up
machine where you could set the level of
a metal strut higher or lower and I
would set that not for chin-ups I'd set
that for push-ups because I would put my
feet on the level strut so that I was at
an incline so my head is going down
towards the floor at greater than thirty
degree incline and then I could Ratchet
it up and do greater than 45 degree
incline so you have way more weight
pressing down on your shoulders with
each push-up you're lifting a higher and
higher percentage of your body weight
and it shifts where the strain is in
terms of stomach muscles versus arm
rests shoulder back muscles that's an
exercise I've been doing for many many
years and the great thing about that is
if you keep on top of it doing that type
of extreme push-up is that then when I'm
ever once I'm stuck in an airport I can
put my feet up on a fence
on a metal barrier or just a niche on a
wall and I can get that work out at
airports or in other situations where
I'm stuck for hours and can't exit or
normal people can accidents so that's
another great except to do otherwise you
know it's standard kind of intro to
power lifting stuff upright row bench
press you know arm curls butter a lot of
butter flight curls a lot of standing I
guess you'd call them standing butterfly
a lot of you know those motions
extending arms in for right now my top
priority
I have 15 days of legal custody of my
daughter and during these 15 days the
only exercise I'm getting is carrying my
daughter on my show on my shoulders you
know carrying her up here which is a lot
of exercise because she weighs about 35
pounds and I go up and down stairs up
and down hills and I walk on the beach
of there and to a limited extent
swimming in the ocean because I go
swimming in the ocean with my daughter
so for this little short period of time
in some ways I'm getting no work out at
all so yeah the moral of the story is
you've got to find a workout that fits
into your day you've got to find a
workout that that works for you but you
have to be aggressive and enterprising
and look for opportunities where there
are none I'm sure most of the university
professors at my university think
there's no way to get a workout on
campus especially during your lectures
not staying after lectures of doing that
during the ten-minute breaks in my
lecture schedule as a university
instructor but if you look for it if you
care enough to make it happen normally
you can make it happen and it's probably
just the way I look but you know
nobody's ever been embarrassed nobody's
ever laughed at me doing push-ups in
public like that it's all the way
address you know nobody's ever
second-guess that once the while I get
questions about why I work out so hard
if I'm working out in public like that
and I give different funny answers to
see what kind of you know what kind of
house just for my own interest I suppose
but yeah that's how I've lived my life
for decades and you know as I've said
again and again I'm not an athlete
the reason why my story and my advice is
worth hearing is precisely that of
somebody who's 38 years old has a desk
job has a lot of responsibilities moral
responsibilities well financial and
ethical responsibilities I got other
things in my mind other things to do
with my time so the kind of advice I
give you is fundamentally different from
an aspiring model on Instagram or any
one of these kids vegans on YouTube live
in that permanent vacation